content/homepage/about.md, before:

---
title: THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE
draft: false
avatar: images/THIicon.png
bio: This page contains The Human Imperative (THI) in initial, general (universal) form. This is meant to be adopted by persons and people wishing to initialize and operate their own individual or local world piece computers.

social:
  - icon: github
    iconPack: fab
    url: https://github.com/CGPS-theuniversalpiececomputer/thehumanimperative-up-computer

weight: 1
widget:
  handler: about

  # Options: sm, md, lg and xl. Default is md.
  width:

  sidebar:
    # Options: left and right. Leave blank to hide.
    position:
    # Options: sm, md, lg and xl. Default is md.
    scale:
  
  background:
    # Options: primary, secondary, tertiary or any valid color value. Default is primary.
    color: secondary
    image:
    # Options: auto, cover and contain. Default is auto.
    size:
    # Options: center, top, right, bottom, left.
    position:
    # Options: fixed, local, scroll.
    attachment: 
---

## **The Human Imperative**

### 0. PREAMBLE
In order to perform a more perfect integration of HUMAN EXPERIENCE, to invent ways to overcome our greatest adversary TIME, to contextualize this integration explicitly in terms of a committed effort to treat peace as a computational evolutionary optimization process, to maximize the state of GLOBAL PEACE, to minimize the state of GLOBAL WAR, to maximize sense of INNER PEACE, and to minimize sense of INNER WAR, this preamble does ordain and establish THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE in this world.

### I. THE UNIVERSAL PIECE, EXECUTION (EXECUTIVE)
1. Commit to the TIME MACHINE FOR PEACE social invention program;
2. Establish a GLOBAL PEACE SYSTEM by inventing and networking WORLD PIECE COMPUTER to create THE UNIVERSAL PIECE COMPUTER, the supercomputer devoted to treating peace as a process defined by THE UNIVERSAL PIECE;
3. Maintain the GLOBAL PEACE SYSTEM and THE UNIVERSAL PIECE at all costs;
4. Do so by assuming the distributed identity of THE INDIVIDUAL to operate WORLD PIECE COMPUTER according to THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE as defined by this document;
5. Commit to this version of THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE to guide WORLD PIECE COMPUTER operation;
6. Treat THE UNIVERSAL PIECE as a game.

### II. THE UNIVERSAL PIECE, RULE (JUDICIAL)
Satisfy the EXECUTION and FUNCTION articles by respecting this RULE PIECE.

#### RULE PIECE
Operate as THE INDIVIDUAL to fulfill these RULE PIECE imperatives:
- **ZERORULE**
  - Respect the FUNCTION PIECE while alternating between ENDRULE and following rules:
    - **R1** Adopt the
      - **C1** COMMON LANGUAGE,
      - **C2** UNIVERSAL PROSPERITY MISSION;
    - **R2** Never give up;
    - **R3** Interact voluntarily;
    - **R4** Honor commitments;
    - **R5** Make own moves;
    - **R6(+)** Maintain faith in self.
  - **R(+)** Append rule imperative as deemed appropriate and just per AMENDMENT article.
  - **R(-)** Append negating rule imperative as deemed appropriate and just per AMENDMENT article.
- **ENDRULE**
  - Alternate between ZERORULE and aforementioned rules, fulfilling THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE by operating WORLD PIECE COMPUTER as THE INDIVIDUAL

### III. THE UNIVERSAL PIECE, FUNCTION (LEGISLATIVE)
Satisfy EXECUTION and RULE articles by respecting this FUNCTION PIECE.

#### FUNCTION PIECE
As THE INDIVIDUAL, fulfill these FUNCTION PIECE imperatives:
- **ZEROFUNCTION**
  - Respect the RULE PIECE while alternating between ENDFUNCTION and following functions:
    - **F1** Optimize
      - **C1** local WORLD PIECE COMPUTER configuration,
      - **C2** individual WORLD PIECE configuration,
      - **C3** alternate between C1 and C2 according to F2;
    - **F2** Maintain
      - **C1** PIECETIME,
      - **C2** CONSTANT CONVERSATION,
      - **C3** PIECEWISE CONTINUOUS ITERATIVE EVOLUTION;
    - **F3** Favor
      - **C1** LOCAL CONNECTIONS,
      - **C2** CORE PEACE BIAS;
    - **F4** Unify knowledge to achieve CONSILIENCE;
    - **F5** Harness
      - **C1** DIFFERENCE POTENTIAL,
      - **C2** HUMAN NATURE;
    - **F6(+)** Maintain safety/security aligned with VIOLENCE CLAUSE.
  - **F(+)** Append rule imperative as deemed appropriate and just per AMENDMENT article.
  - **F(-)** Append negating rule imperative as deemed appropriate and just per AMENDMENT article.
- **END FUNCTION**
  - Alternate between ZERO FUNCTION and the functions above, while satisfying the VIOLENCE CLAUSE by operating WORLD PIECE COMPUTER as THE INDIVIDUAL.

### IV. VIOLENCE
The ultimate purpose of THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE is to prevent GENERALIZED VIOLENCE of nature that is non-consensual, non-defensive, or otherwise unnecessary. Consensual violence is to be tolerated, so long as bystanders and interested parties do not receive violence in the process. Defensive violence is to be encouraged. Necessary violence is to be accepted, making effort to avoid repeating said violence in the future.

### V. AMENDMENT
1. THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE shall be amended as needed, but only additively.
2. AMENDMENTS shall be inserted into the body of THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE itself, not appended, so to preserve context.
3. AMENDMENTS may be made as clauses to rules, functions, or assertions.
4. The RATIFICATION process must be repeated to ordain an AMENDMENT.
5. Comparing instances of THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE, AMENDMENTS will reflect differences in world views, however because AMENDMENTS may only be made additively, the difference represents a history of evolution beginning from THE INDIVIDUAL ORIGIN.

### VI. REPLICATION
1. THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE is a living document, to be passed down, up, and between WORLD PIECE COMPUTER generations.
2. Every time a WORLD PIECE COMPUTER replicates or spawns, THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE for that piece computer is the copied and perhaps modified version of piece computer of THE INDIVIDUAL ORIGIN.
3. If this document is modified to omit any aspect of the THE INDIVIDUAL ORIGIN version, then said document BY DEFINITION is no longer THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE; this includes the DICTIONARY APPENDIX.
4. To save on space, any given instance of THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE may be abridged for practical purposes of operation.

### VII. RATIFICATION
This version of THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE spawns from WORLD PIECE COMPUTER prototype <<prototype name here or Wilder WPC>>. This organization ratifies this version of THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE, establishing WORLD PIECE COMPUTER to maintain this aspect of THE UNIVERSAL PIECE while preventing GENERALIZED VIOLENCE.

Commit message:

add overview copy to thi

content/homepage/about.md, after:

---
title: THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE
draft: false
avatar: images/THIicon.png
bio: This page contains The Human Imperative (THI) in initial, general (universal) form. This is meant to be adopted by persons and people wishing to initialize and operate their own individual or local world piece computers.

social:
  - icon: github
    iconPack: fab
    url: https://github.com/CGPS-theuniversalpiececomputer/thehumanimperative-up-computer

weight: 1
widget:
  handler: about

  # Options: sm, md, lg and xl. Default is md.
  width:

  sidebar:
    # Options: left and right. Leave blank to hide.
    position:
    # Options: sm, md, lg and xl. Default is md.
    scale:
  
  background:
    # Options: primary, secondary, tertiary or any valid color value. Default is primary.
    color: secondary
    image:
    # Options: auto, cover and contain. Default is auto.
    size:
    # Options: center, top, right, bottom, left.
    position:
    # Options: fixed, local, scroll.
    attachment: 
---

## **Overview**

The Human Imperative is a guiding framework designed to help us achieve global peace through a social invention program called the time machine for peace. This program aims to unify Human knowledge and efforts to create a computational system that can systematically process and optimize our collective actions towards peace.

At its core, The Human Imperative serves as a constitution to guide operation and invention of what we call a "world piece computer." A world piece computer is essentially a system of technology and Human network that individuals or groups can create to manage and optimize their own "world pieces". These world pieces can be anything significant to the individual or group, such as physical objects, abstract concepts, or social structures.

The ultimate goal is to connect world piece computers into a larger network, forming what we call "the universal piece computer". The universal piece computer resulting, acts as a giant supercomputer, utilizing the computational power of all connected world piece computers to facilitate better communication, cooperation, and problem-solving on a global scale.

To make this work, we need to adopt a common language known as the lingua franca, which allows all these systems to interface effectively. This language includes not just words and grammar but also in time, protocols, algorithms, and routines for connecting different world piece computers.

By adhering to The Human Imperative and operating our world piece computers according to its rules, we can work together to build a more peaceful and harmonious world. This involves not only optimizing our own world pieces but also collaborating with others to achieve a universal state of peace via process.

In summary, The Human Imperative is a living document that guides us in creating and connecting world piece computers to form the universal piece computer. This system aims to accelerate the advent of global peace by unifying Human knowledge and efforts through a common language and shared goals.

## **The Human Imperative**

### 0. PREAMBLE
In order to perform a more perfect integration of HUMAN EXPERIENCE, to invent ways to overcome our greatest adversary TIME, to contextualize this integration explicitly in terms of a committed effort to treat peace as a computational evolutionary optimization process, to maximize the state of GLOBAL PEACE, to minimize the state of GLOBAL WAR, to maximize sense of INNER PEACE, and to minimize sense of INNER WAR, this preamble does ordain and establish THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE in this world.

### I. THE UNIVERSAL PIECE, EXECUTION (EXECUTIVE)
1. Commit to the TIME MACHINE FOR PEACE social invention program;
2. Establish a GLOBAL PEACE SYSTEM by inventing and networking WORLD PIECE COMPUTER to create THE UNIVERSAL PIECE COMPUTER, the supercomputer devoted to treating peace as a process defined by THE UNIVERSAL PIECE;
3. Maintain the GLOBAL PEACE SYSTEM and THE UNIVERSAL PIECE at all costs;
4. Do so by assuming the distributed identity of THE INDIVIDUAL to operate WORLD PIECE COMPUTER according to THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE as defined by this document;
5. Commit to this version of THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE to guide WORLD PIECE COMPUTER operation;
6. Treat THE UNIVERSAL PIECE as a game.

### II. THE UNIVERSAL PIECE, RULE (JUDICIAL)
Satisfy the EXECUTION and FUNCTION articles by respecting this RULE PIECE.

#### RULE PIECE
Operate as THE INDIVIDUAL to fulfill these RULE PIECE imperatives:
- **ZERORULE**
  - Respect the FUNCTION PIECE while alternating between ENDRULE and following rules:
    - **R1** Adopt the
      - **C1** COMMON LANGUAGE,
      - **C2** UNIVERSAL PROSPERITY MISSION;
    - **R2** Never give up;
    - **R3** Interact voluntarily;
    - **R4** Honor commitments;
    - **R5** Make own moves;
    - **R6(+)** Maintain faith in self.
  - **R(+)** Append rule imperative as deemed appropriate and just per AMENDMENT article.
  - **R(-)** Append negating rule imperative as deemed appropriate and just per AMENDMENT article.
- **ENDRULE**
  - Alternate between ZERORULE and aforementioned rules, fulfilling THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE by operating WORLD PIECE COMPUTER as THE INDIVIDUAL

### III. THE UNIVERSAL PIECE, FUNCTION (LEGISLATIVE)
Satisfy EXECUTION and RULE articles by respecting this FUNCTION PIECE.

#### FUNCTION PIECE
As THE INDIVIDUAL, fulfill these FUNCTION PIECE imperatives:
- **ZEROFUNCTION**
  - Respect the RULE PIECE while alternating between ENDFUNCTION and following functions:
    - **F1** Optimize
      - **C1** local WORLD PIECE COMPUTER configuration,
      - **C2** individual WORLD PIECE configuration,
      - **C3** alternate between C1 and C2 according to F2;
    - **F2** Maintain
      - **C1** PIECETIME,
      - **C2** CONSTANT CONVERSATION,
      - **C3** PIECEWISE CONTINUOUS ITERATIVE EVOLUTION;
    - **F3** Favor
      - **C1** LOCAL CONNECTIONS,
      - **C2** CORE PEACE BIAS;
    - **F4** Unify knowledge to achieve CONSILIENCE;
    - **F5** Harness
      - **C1** DIFFERENCE POTENTIAL,
      - **C2** HUMAN NATURE;
    - **F6(+)** Maintain safety/security aligned with VIOLENCE CLAUSE.
  - **F(+)** Append rule imperative as deemed appropriate and just per AMENDMENT article.
  - **F(-)** Append negating rule imperative as deemed appropriate and just per AMENDMENT article.
- **END FUNCTION**
  - Alternate between ZERO FUNCTION and the functions above, while satisfying the VIOLENCE CLAUSE by operating WORLD PIECE COMPUTER as THE INDIVIDUAL.

### IV. VIOLENCE
The ultimate purpose of THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE is to prevent GENERALIZED VIOLENCE of nature that is non-consensual, non-defensive, or otherwise unnecessary. Consensual violence is to be tolerated, so long as bystanders and interested parties do not receive violence in the process. Defensive violence is to be encouraged. Necessary violence is to be accepted, making effort to avoid repeating said violence in the future.

### V. AMENDMENT
1. THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE shall be amended as needed, but only additively.
2. AMENDMENTS shall be inserted into the body of THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE itself, not appended, so to preserve context.
3. AMENDMENTS may be made as clauses to rules, functions, or assertions.
4. The RATIFICATION process must be repeated to ordain an AMENDMENT.
5. Comparing instances of THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE, AMENDMENTS will reflect differences in world views, however because AMENDMENTS may only be made additively, the difference represents a history of evolution beginning from THE INDIVIDUAL ORIGIN.

### VI. REPLICATION
1. THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE is a living document, to be passed down, up, and between WORLD PIECE COMPUTER generations.
2. Every time a WORLD PIECE COMPUTER replicates or spawns, THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE for that piece computer is the copied and perhaps modified version of piece computer of THE INDIVIDUAL ORIGIN.
3. If this document is modified to omit any aspect of the THE INDIVIDUAL ORIGIN version, then said document BY DEFINITION is no longer THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE; this includes the DICTIONARY APPENDIX.
4. To save on space, any given instance of THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE may be abridged for practical purposes of operation.

### VII. RATIFICATION
This version of THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE spawns from WORLD PIECE COMPUTER prototype <<prototype name here or Wilder WPC>>. This organization ratifies this version of THE HUMAN IMPERATIVE, establishing WORLD PIECE COMPUTER to maintain this aspect of THE UNIVERSAL PIECE while preventing GENERALIZED VIOLENCE.
